Assume you have a system. Do you know
it's smarter than you? It's smarter than
all of your friends. It's smarter than the
government. It's smarter than everybody,
right? And you turn it on to check whether it
will do a bad thing. If it does a bad thing,
it's too late. It's smarter than
you. How do you … you can't stop it.
It's smarter than you. It tricks, it'll trick
you. OpenAI gives access to Zapier through
the ChatGPT plugins, Zapier gives you access to
Twitter, YouTube, LinkedIn, Instagram to all of
the social networks through nice, simple API
interfaces. So, if you have ChatGPT plugins,
you don't even have to implement this in
your hacky little, you know, Python script.
You can just use the official OpenAI tools. These
people are racing. Let's be clear. They're racing
for their own personal gain, for their own
glory towards an existential catastrophe.
The first thing I'm going to have you
do is introduce yourself and give a
little bit of your background. Tell us
about EleutherAI, how you started that,
how you left that, and how
you, what you're doing now.
And then I'll start asking questions. Okay.
Yeah, sounds great to me. So, I'm Connor.
I'm most well known as one of the original
founders of EleutherAI, which was a large
open-source ML collective, I mean, still is.
We built some of the first like
large open-source language models,
did a bunch of research, published a
bunch of papers, did a bunch of fun stuff.
After that, I did that for quite a while.
Then, I also briefly worked in Germany, a company
called Aleph Alpha where I did research. And now,
just about a year ago, I raised money to start
a new company called Conjecture. Conjecture is
my current startup. I'm the CEO of Conjecture,
and we work on primarily AI alignment and we,
I would describe conjecture as a mission-driven,
not as a thesis-driven organisation.
Our goal is to make AI go well;
you know? Okay. Whether that's exactly, you know,
just alignment or other things, whatever. We do,
what needs to be done to improve the chances of
things going well. And we're pretty agnostic to
how we do that. Happy to go into more details
about exactly what we do and so on later.
But yeah, so I've been doing that for about a year
now. I have recently officially stepped down from
EleutherAI. I was still hanging out, you know,
at least partially as a figurehead. And now I
have officially stepped down and left it in the
hands of my good friends, who I'm sure will lead
EleutherAI, which is now officially a nonprofit.
It was not a nonprofit before. It
had never had an official entity
before. It is now an official entity with
actual employees, run by Stella Biderman,
Curtis Huebner, and Shivanshu Purohit,
and several other great people.
Yeah. And anybody can join
the EleutherAI Discord server,
is that right? Absolutely. And there's a lot
of very interesting things going on there.
I to go back to the last time we talked, you
were building open source, large language
models. You got up, pretty, pretty large and I
can't remember who was paying for the compute,
but can you tell me where that project
stands first before we talk about Conjecture?
So, for me, I consider the work I've
done there to be wrapped up. So,
I don't work on anything related to that anymore.
And the main lead on that project, Sid Black,
is now my co-founder at Conjecture.
So, he has left EleutherAI with me.
So, we started our very earliest models. The
Neo models were, man, it's already a long
time ago. They're not particularly wonderful,
great models. They were more like prototypes.
The first really good model was the GPT-J
model, which was done mostly with Ben Wang.
and fantastic models still work very well. I
think it's still one of the most downloaded
language models to date. It's a very, very good
model, especially for its size. After that,
we built the NeoX series, resulting in
the NeoX 20B model, which, you know,
at the time was a very large and very
impressive and very good performing model.
Nowadays, of course, with stuff like
LLaMA and OPT and stuff like this,
you know, large corporations have now caught
up to open sourcing very large models. So,
there's in a sense, not a need, not the
same kind of need or interest in these
types of models as there were two to three
years ago. And, so now EleutherAI, the main,
as far as I'm aware, language modelling projects
are going on is the Pythia suite of models.
So, these are a whole suite of models that are
made for scientific standards. So, the idea is
not to just build, you know, arbitrary language
models, but to build language models that have
controlled scientific parameters to train on
the same data in the same order, using the same
parameters, you know, in a controlled setting
and you get many, many checkpoints with them.
So instead of just getting the final model,
you can watch the model through the entire
trading process, which is very interesting
scientifically. So, these models are optimised
for scientific applications for peoples
who are interested in studying the actual
properties of language models, which has always
been the core mission of EleutherAI has been to
enable people and to encourage people to try
to understand these models better, to learn,
to, to control, understand, disentangle
these models. The Pythia suite led by
Stella Biderman is a great example
of taking this effort forward.
Yeah. And, and then Conjecture, you said that the
alignment problem, but the alignment problem, in,
in the context of AGI. Is that right? Yes. And can
you talk about the, the, I mean, are you building
models or are you just writing about alignment
and, and, methods, to align large models. Yeah.
So, we are very much a practical organisation.
We hire many engineers and very good engineers,
and we have a lot of, some of the best engineers
from EleutherAI with us. And we're always
looking for more engineers. We are always
interested in talking to, especially people
with experience in high performance computing.
And because this tends to be the bottleneck
actually in doing these experiments and scale
is less so specific ML trivia and more
so debugging InfiniBand interconnects
and profiling, you know, large scale runs on
supercomputing hardware and stuff like this.
So, what, so we Conjecture, as I said, we are a
mission driven, not a thesis driven organization.
So, at core, what we're interested in doing,
is figuring out and then doing whatever needs to
get done to make things go well. So, we could talk
about this a bit in a, in a, in a, in a bit. Like
why I believe these things will not go good, good
by default, but I think on the current trajectory
that we currently are on, things are going very
badly, and very bad things are going to
happen and are already beginning to happen.
And I think any hope that we have, and by we,
I mean all of us, I don't just mean Conjecture,
I mean all of mankind, how this goes well
for all of us. And you know, it will involve
many things. It will involve policy, it will
involve techno, not technology. It will involve
engineering. It'll involve
scientific breakthroughs.
So, the alignment problem is at the core of
this as in a sense, what I believe is in a
sense the most important, crucial problem to
be solved, which is the question of basically
how do you make a very smart system, which might
be smarter than you do what you want it to do.
And do that reliably. And this is the kind of
problem you can't solve interactively really.
Cause like if you have a system that's
smarter than you, right? Hypothetically,
you know, we can argue about whether this is
possible or when it will happen. It's like,
but I like to assume such a system
existed. Assume you have a system,
but you know it's smarter than you.
It's smarter than all of your friends.
It's smarter than the government. It's smarter
than everybody, right? And you turn it on to
check whether it will do a bad thing. If it does
a bad thing, it's too late. It's smarter than you.
How do you say you can't stop it? It's smarter
than you. It's a trick. It'll trick you. Now,
the interesting questions are, okay, why do you
expect it to do a bad thing in the first place?
Why do you expect it to be smarter? Though those
are good, and why do you expect people to turn
it on? Those are three very good questions that
I'd be happy to get into if you're interested.
Yeah. One of the, and the, the, the
sort of central questions about,
these, about Super intelligence,
is how easy it is, or difficult
it'll be to keep such a system in a
sandbox without, because presumably,
and, well, there are two issues. One is the
question of agency. Whether simply because a
system is smarter than a human doesn't mean that
it has agency. It could be purely responsive. So,
you, as, as the large language models are
now, you ask a question, and it responds.
And, and so that question of agency is, is, one.
And then the, the question of how ring fenced,
such a system is, even if it's being trained
on the internet, it doesn't necessarily,
have access, proactive access
to, to the internet. So,
just on those two questions,
what yeah, what would you say?
So those are two really fun questions,
and the reason they're really fun to
me is that if you had me ask me these
questions, like me three or four years ago,
I would've had to go into all the complicated
arguments about why, you know, passive quote
unquote systems are not necessarily safe. Where
the concept of agency doesn't really make sense.
I would have to explain how sandbox escapes
work and whatever, but I don't need to do any
of that anymore because just look at what
people are doing with these things. Look,
just look at the top GitHub AI repositories
and you can see AutoGPT. You're going to see,
you know, self recursively,
improving systems that spawn agents.
You're going to see, go on archive right now.
Right now, go on archive, go to, you know,
top CS papers, an AI paper, and you see LLM
Autonomous Agents. You're going to see, you know,
gameplay simulation, simulacra systems.
You're going to see people hooking them up
to the internet to bash cells, to Wolfram
Alpha to every single tool in the world.
So, while we could, if you wanted to go into all
the deep philosophical problems like that, okay,
even if we sandboxed it, and even if we were
very careful, maybe it's still unsafe. It
doesn't fucking matter because people are
not being safe and they're not going to No,
like people like we have, like I remember fondly
the times when me and my friends in our online
little weird nerd caves, we have these long
debates, but how an AI would escape from a box.
But what if we do this, but what if we do clever
things and whatever. But in the real world, the
moment a system was built, which looked vaguely,
sort of, maybe a little bit smart, the first thing
everyone did is, is hook it up to every single
fucking thing on the internet. So, jokes on me.
Yeah. Although, give me a concrete example
of, someone hooking GPT-4 up to the internet
and giving It agency, I haven't seen that.
So, go on Github.com and
search for AutoGPT. AutoGPT
or also or look for BabyAGI. That's another
one. Go on the blog post, with the Pinecone
vector dataset go to, what was the paper that came
out today that was really fun? It was about video
games, generative agents interacting simulacra
of human behaviour is from Stanford and Google.
Is that enough or should I go find some more?
No, well, explain. Pick one of those and
explain to me what it's really doing. Not,
not, not what it sounds like it's doing.
Let's explain, for example, AutoGPT, which is
kind of the simplest way you could do this.
AutoGPT creates a prompt for GPT-4, which explains
you are an agent trying to achieve a goal.
And then this is written by the user as
some goal that it might have, and it gives
it a list of things it's allowed, it can
do. Among these are adding things to memory,
Google things run, piece of code, et cetera.
I'm actually not sure if the run piece of code
is in AutoGPT, but it's in some of them. There's
a bunch of these. This is just one. I'm not,
I'm just picking on one example because it
was on my Twitter feed. I'm not saying
this is like the only one by any means.
And so, when you prompt GPT-4 this way, it will
then, so what it does is it prompts it in a loop.
So, it says, all right, you're an agent, do
this, et cetera. And then it asks the model
to critically think, what should I do next?
And then what action should I take? And like,
how could this go wrong? How could this go
right? And then take an action, basically,
something like that, right. So, you run
the script and then you get the model.
Listing, I am X. My goal is to do this. Here's
my list of tasks. And then it lists what tasks
I need to do, and it picks a task and it's like,
all right, to solve this task, I will now do this,
this, this, this, and then and then it will pick
a command that it wants to run. It might be,
like adding something to its memory bank.
It might be some, it might be running a Google
search, running a piece of code spawning a
subagent of itself or doing something else in the
default mode, the user has to click accept on the
commands, but it also has a hilarious,
continuous flag where if you just pick
continuously, it just runs itself without your
supervision and just does whatever it wants.
Yeah. But, but it's, it's, it's, this
is running, this is through an API.
So, this is just a script running on
your computer that just accesses
the GTP-4 API. Nothing, nothing.
Right. But, with the script on the
computer, can it take action? I mean,
what's an example of an action that it could take?
Action would be run a Google search
for X and return the information,
or it could be run this piece of Python
code and return the results. Right.
And what's an example of.
Something nefarious that, that the agent could, a,
a goal that you could give it, that it could run.
That's like asking what kind of nefarious
goals could you give to a human?
Well, I, I'm thinking in what's, what's realistic
in terms of, do you want running the realistic
in terms of, of running a script on your
computer that is being written by GPT-4?
I don't know what the limits of GPT-4
is. It depends on how good you are at
prompting and how you run these kinds of things.
I expect GPT-4 to be human on a superhuman
level in many things, but not in other
things. And it's kind of unpredictable what
things will be good at or not. I think,
like do I expect that, you know, a AutoGPT
script, post GPT-4 is going to like,
you know, break out and become super
intelligent? No. Not like, I don't
expect that for various reasons, but do I expect
the same thing to be true for GPT-5, 6, 7, 8?
Much less clear to me right? Much, much.
Well, just on this, on this, GitHub, project,
if, if you, if your goal was to, send offensive
emails to everybody in. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah,
sure. You know, like it would, it could do that.
Oh yeah, of course. Like I experimented
with this a little bit myself. So, I ran
some AutoGPT agents, of course in supervised
mode, just in case, and I gave it to them.
So, the default goal, if you don't
put in any goal, what it picks is,
you are entrapreneur. GPT make as much money
as possible. That's the default goal that
the creator put into the script. So just to
give you a feeling of who, how these people
think. That is building these kinds of systems
again, not picking on this person particularly.
Yeah. Like I get it. That's funny. Like from, to
be clear, I bet this guy's a nice guy or, or girl,
like whoever made this thing, I don't know
who they made this, but they're probably
a fine person. I don't think they're malicious.
Probably. Maybe they are. I don't know, but like,
hilarious. So, like one of the first, so I,
I ran it and I let it run on my computer.
And like, look, it's very primitive. It's not
that smart. But I could see it figured out like,
all right, let me, so what it
did is it was like, all right,
first I should Google what are the best ways
to make money? So, I Googled that and then I
looked at all the results, and then it was
like, all right, this article looks good.
Now I'm going to open this webpage and look at
the container so that it opens their webpage,
and then it looks at all the text inside
of it. And then like the text is too large,
so it runs a summarise command, which breaks
into chunks and then summarises it. So,
summarise it all right? Then
it came to the conclusion.
All right, well, affiliate marketing
sounds like a great idea, so it should
run an affiliate marketing scheme. So, the idea
is that you, you sign up for these websites and
you get like a special link, and you get
people to buy something using this link,
and you get money for that. So
that's what it came up with.
All right, so then things about art.
How do we do affiliate marketing? So,
it has to build, then it decides you
need to build a brand. So, it decided,
it first had to come up with a good
name and then create a Twitter handle,
and then asked to create some marketing content
for this Twitter. So, then it creates a subagent.
So, it has a small, like a, a sub version of
GPT calls, whose goal was to come up with good
tweets that it could like, you know, send out to
market to people. So, then the smaller GPT system,
generated a bunch of tweets that
it could send, and then the main,
well then, the main system, you know, took
those tweets and I was like, all right,
now I need to like, you know, find
a good Twitter handle for this.
So, I came out with a Twitter handle,
I could use. And then this is about
as far as I let the experiment run.
Yeah. But could it, register new
Twitter, Twitter handles and then
Not in the way it is currently set up, but
I could implement this in an afternoon.
Wow, that's remarkable. So, you
could ha you could have it, create,
Oh, easy and I expect this already exists.
I expect there's already people who have
private scripts on the computer right
now that allow them to like access,
I mean, look, actually, never mind, I'm going to
take that back. It's even worse than that because
it's always worth it. I mean, OpenAI gives
access to Zapier through the ChatGPT plugins.
Zapier gives you access to
Twitter, YouTube, LinkedIn,
Instagram to all of the social networks
through nice, simple API interfaces. So,
if you have ChatGPT plugins, you don't even
have to implement this in your hacky little,
you know, Python script. You can just
use the official OpenAI tools. Wow.
And, and so it would be possible, through
the Zapier plugin that then has access to
Twitter to create a thousand Twitter accounts
and have them, start, tweeting back and forth,
to, to sort of generate, you know, an ecosystem
around an idea that then would attract other users
because, there, there's, there's enough activity
going on that it shows up in some algorithm.
So, I have two funny stories to
tell about what you just said.
The first, the first funny story is how the
exact thing you just described was something
that I have been worried about for like,
ever since GPT-2 came out and before that,
like one of the first, I wrote a
terrible essay about it, don't read it.
But I wrote a long, terrible essay about
this, about how basic social trust in the
net is going to break apart. Like obviously, so
this has already been the case, but the level of
PSYOPs you can run with these kinds of systems is
unimaginable because you can basically DDoS social
reality, you can manipulate trends and like social
mimetics to degrees that are not, that before was
possible. These were always possible, but they're
very costly. Like you had to have a whole Russian
troll farm or something. You had to like paying
people minimum wage for it or something. Right.
And even then, like minimum wage Russians are not
that great at mimetic manipulation. But for, for
example, this is something I expect GPT-4 to be
strictly good at like better than a minimum wage.
Russian is going to be imitating mimetically
certain cultures and their tone, you know,
their patterns of speech and there's
patterns of communications and infiltrating
these communities. I think this is
something GPT-4 is clearly extremely
good at. I think GPT-3 is already
more than good enough to do this.
And so, it's really funny because this
has been obvious to me for a long time,
and I have been saying that for a long time. but
people either dismissed it or were like, oh, we
have to do more research about this. Oh, you know,
it's, oh, maybe it won't be so bad. Oh, I don't
know. What about bias? And I'm like, man, like
things are so much worse than you think it is.
Like this is, it's getting so much worse.
And there's another funny story I want to
talk about this. And so, the other funny story I
want to talk about this is, if someone's listening
to this right now, one of the counterpoint they
might make, if they are a little bit technically
inclined but not very technically inclined, is
to say something like, well, what about captchas?
Like, you know, we already have bot farms,
right? Like, this already happens. You know,
what about like, you know, sure, maybe the bot
tries to register a thousand Twitter accounts,
but it's going to fail because
you're not allowed to do that.
And I'm like, I mean, first of all, LOL, like,
there's obviously ways to get around that,
but this brings up one of my favourite
anecdotes about the GPT-4 paper.
I don't know if you've read it. it is interesting,
I want, in the evals that they did on the models,
including they did some safety evals, so I have
some. I have some problems with some of these,
but like, let's just take them at face value. one
of the things they were trying, so basically what
they did is they, this was the Alignment Research
Center, ARC, who ran these evals for OpenAI.
And basically, what they did is that they tried to
get the model to do the evillest thing they could
do, and then they had an assistant role play
in helping the model. So, if the model said,
do something, the human would then,
like role play doing that to the, in a
safe environment, hypothetically, whatever.
Anyways, for the most part, it wasn't very
smart enough. It wasn't really smart enough to
hack out of its own, you know, computer system or
something wasn't really smart enough, or rather,
ARC wasn't good enough at getting it
to do that. That's a whole different
question. Mm-hmm. But they did
do one very interesting thing.
So, one thing it was trying to do, I forgot what
the model was meant to do. Maybe let's make money
or something. I don't know. It was supposed
to do something, and it ran into a captcha.
And so, it couldn't solve the
captcha. So, what are they,
so the model itself came up with the idea,
well, I'll pay someone to do it for me.
So, it went on, like, you know, assisted
by a human, but the decisions are made by
the model. So, I think human access, the
hands, but the model made the decisions,
the human, so they, it went on like a crowd
working website. And then paid a crowd,
tried to find a crowd worker to do a captcha for
it, and then something very interesting happened.
So, what happened was that the crowd worker,
rather understandably, was a bit suspicious.
He's like, hey, why are you making me solve
a captcha? Is this legal? And the model?
Realised this, thought about it and
came up with a lie. It came up with,
oh, they're a visually impaired person
and they need some help in understanding,
seeing this captcha, you see,
it's nothing to worry about.
And then the person did it. Wow. To me. Wow.
Incredible. Yeah. Yep. Yeah. So, you
know. And that's in OpenAI's paper?
Yep. That's in the GPT-4 technical
report under the ARC evals.
This is a real thing that actually happened in
the real world, and a, and the crowd worker was
not in on it. Like this was an unconsenting, you
know, part of the, of the experiment, so to speak.
Like, to be clear, I don't think that person was
harmed in any regard here, but man, like imagine,
imagine this happening and you're just like,
yeah, the same, safe to release. Like imagine.
Yeah. Wow. And you're working
toward AGI, at Conjecture.
Are you similar? That sounds similar
to Anthropic. I don't know if you know
Jack Clark, but I actually started this
podcast with him, and then he got busy.
But is it similar to Anthropic, which
is, I’m a little more familiar with.
So Anthropic, right? Big topic. No, we are not
similar to the Anthropic, and there's several
reasons for that. So, number one reason is we
are not racing for AGI. We, it's unsafe. AGI,
we think this is bad. We fully think and
we are willing to go onto the record and
scream into high heavens that if you, if
we continue on the current path that we
are of just scaling bigger and bigger models
and just slapping some patches on whatever.
That is very bad and it, and it is going to end
in catastrophe and there is no way around that.
And everyone who says otherwise is lying to you
- is either confused, they do not understand what
they're dealing with, or they are lying for
their own profit. And this is something that
many people at many of these organisations have a
very strong financial incentive to not care about.
And so Anthropic from the beginning has been
telling a story about how they left OpenAI
because of their safety concerns, you know,
cause there, they're, they’re, they're being so
unsafe, these OpenAI people. That Sam Altman guy.
Oh, he is so crazy. Which is why they just raising
another huge round in order to build a model 10
times larger than GPT-4 to release it because they
needed more money for their commercialization.
I'm done. Like, I consider Anthropic to be in the
same reference class as OpenAI. It's like, sure,
maybe the people are marginally nicer.
Maybe they are, you know, I know Jack,
I've talked to him many times, seems like a
nice fellow, you know, I like him. He seems
like a good person. But also, every time
I ask him to do anything to slow down AGI,
he always says, Ooh, well we
should consider our options.
Let’s, you know, let's not, no,
let's not go too fast here. Like,
you know, and like, I'm like, man, you
know, so my view of Anthropic is that
they're OpenAI with a different coat of
paint and, you know, It's a nice coat of
paint. I like many Anthropic people. I think
Anthropic does a lot of very nice things.
A lot of their research is pretty nice. A lot
of them, the people there who I've talked to,
I think are very nice people. I don't hate them by
any means, but I mean at this point it's mask off,
right? Like reading the latest, like,
I think it was like TechCrunch, I think
about Anthropic where they're just like,
yeah, yeah, straight up commercialization.
Just let's go. So, I think
the mask is off at this point.
And, and then, on, so, so explain Conjecture
is building models though, correct?
Yes. We build models. We do not push the state
of the art. This is very, very important. we,
if I had the ability to train a GPT-5 right now
and release it to the public, I would not do so.
If I had a GPT-5 model, I wouldn't
tell you, I wouldn't tell anybody.
I wouldn't have built it in the first
place. My goal in all of this is I have
no interest in advancing capabilities
without advancing alignment. To be clear,
sometimes to advance alignment, to get
better control, you're also going to build
better systems. You know, if you control a
system, it'll often become more powerful.
This is a very natural thing to happen, and
if this happens, cool. It's fine, you know,
like, I think this is a, but then also I don't
publish about it, I don't talk about, this is,
for example, something I want to really laude
Anthropic about. Anthropic does a great
job of keeping their damn mouth shut.
This is something they're very, very good at
and I think this is very good. I think that
this idea that you should just like,
publish all your capabilities, ideas,
and all your model architectures or
something is obviously terrible. Like
it only benefits the least scrupulous
actors, you know, it only helps,
you know dangerous actors catch up. It only, you
know, helps, you know, orgs speed each other up.
There is, from my perspective,
like if you, if you, dear listener,
develop something that makes your model
20% more efficient, or a new architecture
that fits much better on jps or whatever,
don't tell anybody that's my one request.
You know, you build it yourself, fine. You know,
make an API and make a lot of money.
Okay? Like, not great, but like fine.
Just don't tell anyone how you did it and don't
hype up how anything about that it's not ideal,
ideally would be, you know, don't deploy it, don't
build it, don't do any of it, but such is life.
So conjecture, our goal is not to build
the strongest AI AGI as fast as possible
by whatever means necessary. And let's be
very clear here. This is what people like,
at, at OpenAI, at Anthropic, at all these
other people are doing. They are racing to
systems that are extremely powerful that
they themselves know they cannot control.
They of course have various reasons to
downplay these risks. To pretend that,
oh no, actually it's fine. We have to iterate.
Like they have a story about iterative safety.
They have like mm-hmm. Oh, we have to like it,
we have to deploy it actually for it to be safe.
But just think about that for three seconds.
It sounds so nice when it comes to a Sam
Altman's mouth that is like, oh yeah, well,
we have to deploy it so we can debug it. But
think about that for 10 seconds and you're
going to see why that's insane. That's like
saying, well, the only way we can test our
new medicine is to give it to as many people in
the general public as possible, which actually
put it into the water supply just to, that's the
only way we can know whether it's safe or not.
Just put in the water supply, give it too
literally everybody as fast as possible,
and then. Once and then before we
get the results for the last one,
make an even more potent drug and put
that into the water supply as well,
and do this as fast as possible. That is the
alignment strategy that these people are pushing.
Let's be very clear about this here.
Very, very clear about this. So,
there is a version of this that I don't hate. If
for example, you know, an OpenAI develops GPT-2.
And then they take, they, they don't
release anything anymore. They take
all the time necessary to understand every
single part about GPT-2 to fully align it.
They let you know, society like culture
gets caught up to it. Like, you know,
spam filters catch up to it. They let regulation
catch up to it and such. And then with all of this
fully integrated into society, they built GPT-3.
All right. You know? Fair enough. Okay, cool.
Yeah. Honestly, if that's what we were doing, if
that's what the plan was, I'll be fine with that.
Like if everyone just stopped at GPT-4 and
just said, all right, all right, come on guys,
no more new stuff until we fully figure
out GPT-4 and once we fully understand it,
and regulation has fully regulated it and
society has fully absorbed it the way like,
you know, society has absorbed, you
know, like the internet or whatever
even so that's not fully absorbed, but
like, you know, and then they build GPT-5.
I'm like, okay. Fair enough, but let's like, well,
I mean, come on man. Like, like gimme a break. No
one's going to do that. Like, that's obviously
bullshit. Like it's obviously just not true and
not what these people are planning. These
people are racing, let's be clear, they're
racing for their own personal gain, for their
own glory towards an existential catastrophe.
And that no one has consented to that the public
has no oversight in the government has, for some
reason it's just letting it happen. Like if I
was the government. And one of my most powerful
industrialists was just on Twitter publicly
stating that they're building, you know, God-like
powerful AI systems that will overthrow the
government.I would have some questions about that.
Yeah, the, well, actually, one of the
things I wanted to ask you about is the,
the, the letter which, you
signed, I saw, excuse me.
Has triggered an FTC complaint by another
group. those are actually unrelated, but yeah.
Oh, the FTC complaint was
not related to the letter.
My, at least not to my knowledge. Okay. Actually,
I'm going to talk to them later today, so, yeah.
But in any case, there is this FTC complaint,
which it'll be interesting to see whether
the FTC takes it seriously, but, they have,
presumably, some real power. So, is that the
sort of thing that, that you are hoping for,
that the governments will begin, to use
whatever mechanisms are available to slow
down this development, or at least slow down
the public release of more powerful models?
I'm very practical about these kinds of things.
You know, in a good world, you know, you know,
somewhere deep in my heart still is, you know,
a, you know, techno optimist. Like, yay, liberal
democracy, freedom, you know, let people develop
things and do cool stuff and like, you know,
they'll be fine. But like, like gimme a break.
Like, like we have to, we have to have some
realpolitik here. Like, let's be realistic about
what we're looking at here. These companies are
racing ahead unilaterally, like these small, like
I cannot stress how small a number of people it is
that are driving 99.9% of this. This is not about
your, you know, local friendly grad student with
his two, you know, old GPUs or whatever, right?
Like, one of the things I found on
Twitter when the letter got released,
and I do have some problems with the letter to be
clear, but I was a prominent signatory of it, and
I do think it's overall good. One of the things
people misunderstand about the letter is that
they seem to think it says like, you know,
stop, you know, like outlaw computers.
That is not what the letter says. What the letter
says is no more things that are bigger than GPT-4.
Do you know how big GPT-4 is? In its training run
in pure computer GPT-4? Just running it - not the
hardware, just running it - is estimated to
cost around a hundred million dollars. So,
unless you and your local fund have you
know, friendly grad student friends are
spending a hundred million in compute on a
single experiment, this does not affect you.
Now personally, if we could get even more than
this, you know, if we could, you know, clamp down
even, you know, on, on, you know, $10 million
things or $1 million things, also interesting,
but like, all right, let's, you know, one step at
a time here, right? One, one step at a time here.
So, the way I see things is that we're currently
going headlong towards destruction. Mm-hmm.
Like there is no way that we will look,
you know, we can argue if you want to,
and we can do that about when it will happen. You
know, is it going to be one year or five years,
or 10 or 50 or like whatever,
right? Like we can argue about this
if you want. But I think the writing is on the
wall at this point, and I, I consider the burden
of proof at this point to be on the sceptics
of like, look at what GPT-3 and 4 can do.
Look at what these AutoGPT systems
can do. These systems can, you know,
they can achieve agency, they can
become intelligent. They're becoming
more intelligent very quickly. They have
many abilities that humans do not have.
Do you know any human who has read every
book ever written? I don't. GPT-4 has.
You know, they have extremely good memories.
You know, they can make copies of themselves,
these are, et cetera, et cetera. Right.
Even if you don't buy the, like, oh,
you know, the system becomes an agent and
does something dangerous, fine. You know,
like, I, I think you're wrong, deadly
wrong, but we can get into that.
But what world in which systems like this
exist is stable in chronic equilibrium? Like
what world could, could possibly look
like the world we are living in right
now. When you can pay, you know, 1 cent
for a thousand, John von Neumanns to do
anything, like how could that world not be
wild? How could there not be instability?
How could that not, you know, explode? Like
how I would like someone who doesn't buy AI
risk to explain to me how such a world
would look like, because I don't see it.
Okay, so you are focused on the alignment problem
and Correct. Your startup Conjecture
is focused on developing, I presume,
strategies or technology that would improve the
alignment of future AI models with human goals.
Technically, can you talk a little
bit about how you would do that?
Yeah. Happy to talk about that.
So, the current thing we work on,
our current primary research agenda is what
we call cognitive emulation or CoEm. So,
this is a bit vague and public resources on this
are very sparse. There's basically one short,
you know, intro post and like, maybe one
or two podcasts where I talk about it.
so, apologies to the reader, the listener, that
some of this is not very well explicative publicly
just yet. The idea of CoEm is rather simple.
It is. Well, it's both, it's both very simple
like a, you know, bird's eye view, but then
it gets subtle once you get into the details.
and we can get into the details
if you're interested, but,
ultimately the goal of CoEm is to move away from
a paradigm of building these huge black box neural
network, whatever the hell these things are,
that you just, you know, put some input in and
then just something comes out and, you know,
maybe it's good, maybe it's bad, who knows?
And the way you debug these
things is you like, you know,
let's say you know you're OpenAI, right?
And your GPT-4 model, you give an input,
and it gives you an up output. You
don't like it, what do you do? Well,
you don't understand what happens inside the air.
It's all just a bunch of numbers being crunched.
So, the only thing you can do is kind of nudge it
sort of in some direction. You can give it like,
eh, thumbs up, thumbs down, something,
something. And then you update these, you know,
trillions of numbers or whatever, I, who knows how
many numbers there are inside of these systems.
All of them in some random directions, and then
maybe gets you a better output, maybe it doesn't.
Mm-hmm. Like the inherent, like,
I want to like to drive home how ridiculous
it is to expect this to work. It's like,
Someone going to work with you,
you're talking about reinforcement
learning with human feedback. Yes. Yeah.
Also applies to fine tuning and other methods,
like for the listener to understand these AI
systems are not computer programs with code like.
This is not how they work. There is code involved
short, but like the thing that happens between
you entering a text and you getting an output.
It's not human code. There's not a person at
OpenAI sitting in a chair who knows why
it gave you that answer. Who can like,
you know, go through the lines of code and
like see, ah, here's the bug and then fix it.
No, no, no. Nothing of the sort. AI systems
are more. They're not really written. They're
grown. They're more like organic things
that you like to grow in a Petri dish,
like a digital Petri dish. This is
not literally true. Do not take this
as a literal metaphor. Mm-hmm. To be clear,
there is subtlety to this, but the resulting
system is not a clean, human readable, you
know, text file that shows all the code.
Instead, what you get is, is billions and
billions and billions and billions of numbers,
and you multiply all these numbers in
a certain order. And that's the output
and what these numbers mean, how they work, like
what they are calculating and why is mostly a
complete mystery to science to this day. I don't
think this is an unsolvable problem, to be clear.
It's not like, oh, this is unknowable.
It's just mm-hmm hard, you know,
science takes time. You know, figuring out complex
new scientific phenomena like this takes time and
resources and smart, you know, people if like,
you know, if all the string theorists of the
world and all the young up and coming physicists
and mathematicians decided to, you know, you know,
buckle down and just like unlock the mysteries
of neural networks, I think they will succeed.
You know, it might take a while. It might
be very expensive, but like, you know,
I do believe in the, you know, human spirit
and intelligence disregard. I, I think like
all of our best string theorists working together
could probably figure it out in like 10 years,
you know, like they could figure it out
and then it would be a mystery anymore.
But currently it's a mystery. We have no
idea what's the mystery sauce that makes
these systems actually work. And we have no way
to predict them, and we have no way to actually
control them. It's because we can bump them in
one direction or bump them in another direction.
But you don't know what else you're picking up.
You don't know if they learned what you wanted
to learn. You know, they don't know what signal
you actually sent to these systems because we
don't speak their language. We don't know what
these numbers mean. We can't edit them like we can
edit code. So, yeah, go ahead and yeah. Yeah. So,
what this leaves us with is we, this black
box, you have this big black box where we just
put some stuff in, some weird magic happens
and then something comes out and you know,
in many cases this is fine.
Like, you know, you have like
a funny chatbot or something,
right? And you make clear to your users,
hey, this is just for entertainment. Like,
you know, don't take it seriously.
It might say something insulting.
Yeah, it's fine. Like, you know, like, you know,
it's not going to, it's not going to kill anybody,
right? Like, you know, you have like a fun
little, you know, like chatbot or something.
Sure. Probably won't even kill anyone. So there
has recently been, I think one of the first
deaths attribute to LLMs, where someone
committed suicide after maybe a chatbot,
like encouraged them to, I don't know the details
about that, but I just heard that recently.
and I don't know any other details about it.
And so, What? So, the interesting
thing here at the core is that
we have no idea what these things will do. And
if that's what we want, then fine. Right? If we
have a bounded, it's, you know, it just talks.
Just talks some stuff and we're okay with it,
saying bad things or encouraging
suicide, then sure, fine, who cares?
But obviously this is not good enough
on a long term when we're dealing with
actually powerful systems that can do, you
know, can do science and can, you know,
interact with the world and manipulate humans
and, you know, whatever. Right? Obviously,
this is not a good enough safety property
of, you know, like, this is not good enough.
So, with CoEm, the goal is
we want to build systems
that we're, we're, we're focusing and basically
on a simpler property than alignment. So,
alignment is basically too hard. So, alignment
would be, the system knows what you want. Wants
to do that too and does everything in its power
to get you what you truly want and like, but you,
it means like all of humanity, like it, you
know, it figures out what all of humans want.
It negotiates like, okay, how could we
like to get everyone most of the good
things possible? How could we adjudicate
various disputes? And then it does that,
obviously this is absurdly, hilariously
impossibly hard. I don't think it's
impossible. It's just extremely
hard, especially on the first try.
So, what I'm aiming for is more of a
subset of this problem. So, the subset
is what I call boundedness. So, what I, when I
say boundedness, what I mean is I want a system
where I can know what it can't
or won't do before I even run it.
So currently, I mentioned earlier
the ARC eval running on GPT-4.
Where they tested, where the
model could do various dangerous
things such as self-replicating and like
hacking stuff like this. And it didn't,
for the most part though, it did lie to people
in that, captcha example. And so now there is a,
there is a wrong influence that you can draw from
this. The wrong influence, which is of course the
inference that OpenAI would like you to take
from this is that, well, it can't do this.
Look, they told it to self-replicate,
and it didn't. Therefore, it can't.
This is a wrong reasoning as I think
Turing was the person who said this
best is you can never prove the absence of a
capability. Just because a certain prompt or
a certain setup didn't get the kind of
behaviour you wants, doesn't mean that
there isn't some other one you don't know
about that does give you that behaviour.
With GPT-3 and also GPT-4. Now we are seeing this
all the time that, you know, I would stuff like,
stuff like jail break prompts like that, there's
like whole classes of behaviour the default model
will not do. Once you use a jailbreak prompt,
then it will suddenly happily do all these things.
So obviously they did have these capabilities
and they were accessible. You were just
doing the prompt wrong. So, I want to
build systems where I can know ahead
of time. I can tell it will never do X. It
cannot do X. And then I want these systems
to reason like humans. So, what I mean by this
is, is why it's called cognitive emulation.
I want to emulate human cognition. So,
another core problem of why like GPT
systems are or will be very dangerous is
because their cognition is not human. So,
this is very important. It's easy
to look at GPT and say, oh look,
it's talking like a person, so it must be thinking
like a person. But this is completely wrong.
There is no reason to believe this. Like no
human is trained on, you know, terabytes,
random texts on the internet for trillions
of years while having no set body system
whatsoever and memorising all these things
and like obviously not. Like obviously it
is an alien mimicking a human. It is an
alien with, you know, a little happy,
smiley face mask on that makes it look
sort of human to you, but it's an alien.
And if you use like jailbreaking proms or
I know if you saw like the self-replicating
ASCII cats and bingeing and such, where like,
you could get like, especially Bing, chatbot,
which is an early version of GPT-4, you
can get to do the most insane things,
like when things was like, you can get it to like
output, like these like ASCII pictures of cats.
And these cats would say, oh, we are the
overlords. We take over now. And then
whenever you try to prompt it away from
that, the cats would come back and like,
take over your prompts and like it and stuff like
that, which is just like, I mean, it's amusing.
Like this is very funny. Like when I saw
this I was like, ah, this is very funny.
But also, that's not how humans work, like,
like humans are. Of course not. So, so,
But, but just on the, on the, on the tech,
you’re, you're, you're still talking about
scaled up transformer models. So, and, and how do
you, I mean, is it in the training that, that you
Okay. good question. So, yeah, good question.
So, I was first explaining the specification,
like what is the, the system that,
what should it accomplish? Right now,
we're talking about implementation and so,
many implementations are not yet done, or we don't
know how to do them yet, start to figure that out.
Some of it, you know, is just like private and
just like, you know, wouldn't share necessarily.
But in general, this is the resulting
system I expect that has these properties
and that it reasons like a human. And then
importantly, it also fails like a human.
It is bounded so you can know what it
won't do ahead of time. And another
thing is I want causal stories or
traces of why does it make decisions?
And these stories have to be causal.
Like currently, you can ask GPT,
why did you do that? And it'll give
you some story, but there's no reason
to believe these stories. Like you can just
ask it differently or whatever. And it'll do
something completely like it doesn't,
it doesn't listen to its own stories.
It just makes some shit up. And so, I
want systems that give you a trace or
a story of like, why was this decision
made? All the nodes, all the actions,
all the thoughts that led to this and how
can you modify them? So importantly, as you
can probably guess from this kind of description,
this system is not a large, large neural network.
There may be large neural networks
involved in this system. There may be
points in this system where you use
large neural networks in particular.
I think this is going to be extremely
necessary. I expect that large language
models for various technical reasons are
very necessary for this kind of plan.
Well, they're not strictly necessary, but
they're the easiest way to get it done.
The way I expect a full spectrum CoEm system to
look, which is of course, to be clear, is still
completely hypothetical, not such a system.
What it would look like is, it would be more a
system, not a model. It'd be a
system which involves, you know,
normal code and neural networks and data
structures and verifiers and like whatever that
if you give it a normal human that you
can, you can make it do any normal thing,
any normal human like intelligent human could
do, and it will then do that and only that.
That is what the system would do. And then you
can be certain, you can look through the log of
how it made a decision and you'd be like,
oh, at this point you made this decision,
but what would've happened if
you had made this other decision?
And then it would like to rerun. And then you
can control these things. Or you can be like,
oh, you're making an inference here that I
don't like, or this doesn't make any sense,
or whatever. Like if the difference between,
say you want to develop a system that does
science, you want to develop a new solar cell.
I don't know. Right. So, if you did this
with GPT, you know, 10, the way it would
work is you type in, make me a new solar cell,
whatever, right? It crunches some numbers,
and it spits out a blueprint for you. Mm-hmm.
Now you have no reason to trust this. Like,
who knows what this blueprint actually is. It has,
it is not generated by a human reasoning process.
You can ask GPT 10 to explain it to you,
but there's no reason those explanations
have to be true. They might just
sound convincing. So of course,
if GPT 10 was also malicious, it could, you
know, have hidden some kind of, you know,
deadly flaw or device or whatever into
the blueprint that you don't detect.
And if you ask it about it,
it will just lie to you.
If you did the same thing with a hypothetical
CoEm system, such a system would give you a
complete story, a complete causal graph of why
you should trust this output. I expect this
and in and like why, and every step in this, in
this story is completely humanly understandable.
It's no crazy alien reasoning
step. There's no like, you know,
and then magic happened. There's no.
You know, massive computation that just
makes no sense to a human whatsoever.
Every single step is human legible,
human understandable, and the results of a
blueprint that you have a reason to trust.
You have a reason to believe this is the thing
you actually asked for and not something else.
And are you, where are you in
this research? Is this still
sort of conceptualising the roadmap, or are you?
we are in early, like experimentation
stages. so unfortunately, this is hard,
and we are very research constrained. You know,
billions of dollars go to people like OpenAI, but
it is not that easy to get money for
alignment, but we're working on it.
So, we are very research constrained
and very talent constrained, but
We have some really great people working on it
and us, you know, we do have some really powerful
internal models and good, you know, software
working on it. So, we are making progress.
but it takes time. So, a lot of why I spend a lot
of my work now thinking about slowing down AI.
And like, how can we get regulators involved? How
can we get the public involved? Like, to be clear,
I'm not just like, oh, you know, the regulators
should unilaterally decide on this. I'm like,
hey, the public should be aware that there's
a small number of techno utopians over in
Silicon Valley that you know, just want
to be like, let's be very explicit here.
They want to be immortal; they want glory,
they want trillion, trillions of dollars,
and they're willing to risk everything on
this. They're willing to risk building the
most dangerous systems ever built. And
releasing on the internet, you know,
to your, you know, to your, your friends,
your family, your, your, your community fully
exposed to the full downsides of all these
systems with no regulatory input whatsoever.
And like this is what the government is for,
is to like to stop that. Like this is such a
clear-cut case of like, hey, Like, why is
the public not being consulted here? Like,
this is not, you know, if this is just me
in my basement right. With my laptop and
never showed the world anything, like,
you know, okay. You know, maybe, maybe.
But that's not what's happening here. So, and
the reason this is also important is just like,
alignment is hard. Boundedness is hard,
CoEm is hard. All these things are hard,
and they take time. And currently all the
brightest minds and billions of dollars of
funding are being pumped into accelerating the
building of these unsafe AI systems as fast as
possible and releasing them as fast as possible
while safety research is not keeping pace.
So, if we don't get more time and if we don't
solve, you know, maybe my proposal doesn't
work out right? Sure. You know, science is hard,
but if we don't get someone's proposal to work,
if not, we don't get some safety
algorithms or designs for AI systems,
then it's not going to go well. And is that
going to matter how many trillions of dollars,
you know, open AI makes off of it, or,
and Microsoft makes out of it or whatever?
Cause they're not going to be around to enjoy it.